a) Managing packages - Ubuntu
1. Install the package "nano"
2. Navigating the File System / Manipulating Files and Directories


b) Navigating the File System / Manipulating Files and Directories
1. Go the home directory and create a directory named "folder1"
2. Rename the directory "folder1" to "new-folder" and create a file "hello.txt" inside this directory
3. Create 4 additional files using only one command: file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
4. Remove 2 files: "file1.txt" and "file2.txt
5. Remove all files starting with "file"
6. Remove the directory "new-folder"
7. List all the files that contain either the letter "c" or "d"
8. List all the files whose name contain "ile"


c) Editing and viewing files
1. Go the home directory, create a new file named "file.txt", install nano and edit this file
2. Show the content of the file.txt


d) Redirection
1. Read the content from both "file1.txt" and "file2.txt" and print to the screen
2. Redirection - take the content of "file1.txt" and put it into "file2.txt"
3. Redirection: take the content of "file1.txt" and "file2.txt", and put it into "combined.txt"
4. do "echo Hello World" and put this into the whatever.txt file
5. Add the following to the "whatever.tx" file: "I am Alain Afonso"
6. Get the long list of the files in the "etc" directory and write the output to a file called "files.txt"


e) Searching for text
1. Search for the word "hello" in the file.txt
2. Search for the word "root" in /etc/password
3. Search for the word "hello" inside multiple files "file1.txt", "file2.txt"
4. Search for the word "hello" in the files inside the current directory and all its sub-directory



f) Filters / Text Processors Commands

Create a file named "my-group" with the following content below:
```
Jerry Seinfeld
Cosmo Kramer
Eliane Benes
George Costanza
Newman mailman
Frank Costanza
Morty Seinfeld
Babes Kramer
Alton Benes
J Peterman
George Steinbrenner
Uncel Leo
David Puddy
Justin Pitt
Kenny Bania
```
1. Get the first character / letter of everyline of the file
2. Get the first, second and fourth character / letter of every line of the file
3. List range of characters - get from the first character all the way until the fourth character / letter of every line of the file
4. List a specific range of character - get from the first until the third character and from fourth until the seventh character of every line of the file
5. Get the list of character by the byte size - display a character of 3 bytes of every line of the file
6. Display a list of a column of this file by specifying the delimeter - List the first 6th column separated by :
7. Display a list of a column of this file by specifying the delimeter - List the first 6th and 7th column separated by :
8. From your home directory get a list of everything in there and display the second all the way to the fourth character.
9. Display the first column of the file
10. List 1 and 3rd field of "ls –l" command output
11. List the last column of "ls -l" comand output
12. Print the column that that contains the word "Jerry"  
13. Ouput only 1st field of /etc/passwd
14. Do this command << echo "Hello Alain" >> and output replace the word "Alain" with "Adam"
15. Change every surnames of the list with "Smith"
16. Get lines that have more than 15 byte size
17. Get the column matching "Music" in /home/username
18. Find the total number of columns of the file
19. Search for the word "Seinfeld" in my-group file.
20. Search for "Seinfeld" and count how many times it shows up in the file.
21. Search for "Seinfeld" and ignore case-sensitive.
22. Search for "Seinfeld", display the matched lines and their line numbers.
23. Display every lines that don't contain the word "Seinfeld".
24. Search for all the lines that don't contain the word "Seinfeld" and print only the first column.
25. Search for all the lines that don't contain the word "Seinfeld" and print only the first column with a range (get from the first until the third character).
26. From your home directory print only the line that matches the file or directory "desktop".
27. Search for 2 keywords "" "" on the my-group file.
28. Sort the file in alphabetical order
29. Sort in reverse alphabetical order
30. Sort by the second column
31. Removes duplicates line from the files
32.Sort the list, filters it, and counts how many times a duplicate showed up
33. Only show repeated lines.
34. Check file line count, word count and byte count
35. Get the number of lines in a file
36. Get the number of words in a file
37. Get the number of bytes in a file
38. Get the number of files in a particular directory


g) Finding Files and Directories
1. Find all the files and directories in the current directory
2. Find all the files and directories starting from "etc"
3. Using "find" command, find only the directories in the current directory
4. Using "find" command, find only the files in the current directory
5. Using "find" command, find all the files whose names start with "f" in the current directory
6. Find all the python files and write the result to a file called pythonfile.txt


h) Chaining commands
1. Create a directory "test", enter this directory and echo "done" 
2. Uses the AND / OR operator and the task above
3. Create a pipe - what comes out of the 1st command, goes inside the second and so on
4. Break up a long command into multiple lines by using the backslash


i) Environment Variables
1. Viewing environment varibales
2. Setting and viewing Environment varibales
3. Permanent environment variables must be written inside file ".bashrc" located in the ~ 
4. Reload the .bashrc file - must be reloaded from ~ directory


j) Managing Users
1. create the home directory for user "john"
2. find where this user is stored
3. Use "usermod" to modify the records of the user you just created - modify the /bin/sh to /bin/bash
4. Locate the password for this user
5. Open another terminal and login as John



k) Managing groups
1. Create a new group called "developers" and locate it
2. Add "John" to this group and displays john's password
3. Display the groups John is part of.
4. Add John to a new group called "artists"


l) File Permissions
1. create a shell script called "deploy" with a message "echo hello"
2. grant "execute permission" to "deploy.sh" file and execute it
